Byte code generation
--------------------

Code generation target
======================

Target of `Mk54` compiler is to produce a single .class file that when run with with JRE will perform calculations
defined by MK program.

Generated class should be able to handle command line parameters used to set up starting values of stack and memory 
registers and print stack and/or memory registers after program completion.

Easiest way to achieve this without writing byte code for all operations is to use "template" class where all necessary 
scaffolding will be written in Java and one method will work as a placeholder for actual generated byte code. This class
is `net.ninjacat.mk54.Mk54`. It has main() method which will handle all setup code, then call empty `execute()` method 
and then perform all necessary teardown.  

With the help of [ASM](https://asm.ow2.io/) new class will be created based on `net.ninjacat.mk54.Mk54` where empty 
`execute()` method body will be replaced with generated byte code. This new class will *not* be a subclass of 
`net.ninjacat.mk54.Mk54`,  it will be a new class, not part of any package and it will be self contained.   


Details
=======

### Numeric entry

Being a calculator, MK family enter numbers one digit at a time. To enter number 42.42e-42 will require following 
program

    00. 4
    01. 2
    02. .
    03. 4
    04. 2
    05. ВП
    06. 4
    07. 2
    08 /-/

After each operand register X will contain a new number, first 4, then 42, then 42.0, then 42.4 and so on. This means
that to correctly support the same in `Mk54` it will require a helper class which will handle the state of 
register X, by deciding whether next digit should be part of integer or fractional part of mantissa or exponent.

Helper class, even internal means another .class-file generated by compiler, when my goal is to generate single .class 
file. This means I should generate the code for each digit and maintain state of register X inside main class.

There are two solutions to that. First one is easier. Write all digit handling code as Java method in Mk54 template 
class and call it from generated code. Second one is a bit harder, but also will produce larger code. Generate all
digit handling code as byte code and insert it every time digit operation is encountered.

`Mk54` will use combined approach by generating all code for mantissa operations, but calling to Java method for exponent
operations.

---

After any calculation flag `entryMode` will be set to `MANTISSA` so that any digit entry will be performed on mantissa.
Variable `decimalFactor` will be reset to `0` at the same time.

Adding new digit to mantissa is more or less straightforward, but it requires a state variable `decimalFactor`. While
decimal factor is 0, all digits are added to integer part of the number. For each digit N, current value of register X
is multiplied by 10 and then N is added to register X. When `.` operation executes it will set `decimalFactor` to 10.
When `decimalFactor` is not equal to 0, each new digit will be divided by current `decimalFactor` and added to 
register X. After that `decimalFactor` itself will be divided by 10 to be ready for next fractional digit.

Things become trickier as soon as `ВП` or `EXP` operation is encountered. This operation puts calculator in exponent 
entry mode. There is no easy way to manage adding exponent digit-by-digit and changing sign of the exponent when `/-/` 
operation is executed. 

`ВП` operation will switch state flag `entryMode` to value `EXPONENT`. When in `EXPONENT` mode for each digit entry 
method `exponentDigitEntry(int)` will be called. It will convert register X to `binary32` representation, extract 
exponent bits and perform necessary operations to add next digit, while managing exponent in -99..+99 range. After that
it will modify exponent bits of `binary32` integer, convert it back to float and update register X. 